# course-3



The goal of this project is to demonstrate the ability to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis. The data set used here is data collected from the accelerometers of Samsung Galaxy S smartphones. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained:


Contents


CodeBook.md - Describes the experiment data and the steps taken to summarize the data.
run_analysis.R - R script to merge, clean-up, subset, and summarize the experiment data.
run_data_summary.txt - Output file generated by the run_analysis.R script.
README.md - This file.
The run_analysis.R does the following:

Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set.
Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive activity names.
Creates a second, independent tidy data set called run_data_summary.txt that contains the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

Running the script

The 'here' R package has been used in order to make all file paths in the script relative. This means that any user can source the run_analysis.R script in their machine and be able to run it in their working directory of choice without having to edit any file paths to match the directory structure in their machine. The current script will download, unzip and import all the data sets and preserve the order directory structure in the original data set.
